# MODEL1011080002: BAUCH280

## Installation

Download this repository, and install with distutils

`python setup.py install`

Or, install using pip

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL1011080002.git`

To install a specific version (in this example, from the 2014-09-16 BioModels release)

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL1011080002.git@20140916`


# Model Notes


This is metabolic network reconstruction of _Baumannia cicadellinicola_
described in the article  
**Graph-Based Analysis of the Metabolic Exchanges between Two Co-Resident Intracellular Symbionts, Baumannia cicadellinicola and Sulcia muelleri, with Their Insect Host, Homalodisca coagulata.**   
Cottret L, Milreu PV, Acuña V, Marchetti-Spaccamela A, Stougie L, Charles H,
Sagot MF. _PLoS Comput Biol._ 2010 Sep 2;6(9). pii: e1000904. PMID:
[20838465](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20838465) , DOI:
[10.1371/journal.pcbi.1000904](http://dx.doi.org/10.1371/journal.pcbi.1000904)

Abstract:  
Endosymbiotic bacteria from different species can live inside cells of the
same eukaryotic organism. Metabolic exchanges occur between host and bacteria
but also between different endocytobionts. Since a complete genome annotation
is available for both, we built the metabolic network of two endosymbiotic
bacteria, Sulcia muelleri and Baumannia cicadellinicola, that live inside
specific cells of the sharpshooter Homalodisca coagulata and studied the
metabolic exchanges involving transfers of carbon atoms between the three. We
automatically determined the set of metabolites potentially exogenously
acquired (seeds) for both metabolic networks. We show that the number of seeds
needed by both bacteria in the carbon metabolism is extremely reduced.
Moreover, only three seeds are common to both metabolic networks, indicating
that the complementarity of the two metabolisms is not only manifested in the
metabolic capabilities of each bacterium, but also by their different use of
the same environment. Furthermore, our results show that the carbon metabolism
of S. muelleri may be completely independent of the metabolic network of B.
cicadellinicola. On the contrary, the carbon metabolism of the latter appears
dependent on the metabolism of S. muelleri, at least for two essential amino
acids, threonine and lysine. Next, in order to define which subsets of seeds
(precursor sets) are sufficient to produce the metabolites involved in a
symbiotic function, we used a graph-based method, PITUFO, that we recently
developed. Our results highly refine our knowledge about the complementarity
between the metabolisms of the two bacteria and their host. We thus indicate
seeds that appear obligatory in the synthesis of metabolites are involved in
the symbiotic function. Our results suggest both B. cicadellinicola and S.
muelleri may be completely independent of the metabolites provided by the co-
resident endocytobiont to produce the carbon backbone of the metabolites
provided to the symbiotic system (ie., thr and lys are only exploited by B.
cicadellinicola to produce its proteins).

This model was downloaded as a supplement to the article.

This model originates from BioModels Database: A Database of Annotated
Published Models (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/). It is copyright (c)
2005-2011 The BioModels.net Team.  
To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.

In summary, you are entitled to use this encoded model in absolutely any
manner you deem suitable, verbatim, or with modification, alone or embedded it
in a larger context, redistribute it, commercially or not, in a restricted way
or not..  
  
To cite BioModels Database, please use: [Li C, Donizelli M, Rodriguez N,
Dharuri H, Endler L, Chelliah V, Li L, He E, Henry A, Stefan MI, Snoep JL,
Hucka M, Le Novère N, Laibe C (2010) BioModels Database: An enhanced, curated
and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models. BMC Syst
Biol., 4:92.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587024)


